Having said all this, your cheapest
option for hitting protein goals is
[music]
Hi, my name is John Jish. I'm a doctor
of biomedical engineering, which gives
me a unique perspective on many things
beyond what you would normally see on
YouTube out of the typical YouTube
sort of fitness and nutrition
influencers. What I want to talk about
today is something it's a question I get
asked all the time. What is the most
cost effective or cheapest way to hit my
protein goals? Now, people are often in
crisis about this because once they find
out that you really need one gram of
protein per pound of body weight in a
healthy way replicate the cells, you
need to replicate as well as being able
to [music] build muscle. starts to seem
like there's not not really enough room
in your intestines for digesting
anything other than protein. And from
experience, I tend to agree with that.
However, supplements can
massively change that direction only
because they have what you're looking
for in isolation. So, like for example,
if you eat a big steak, yes, you do get
some high quality protein. You also get
some fat. A certain level of fat, 50
grams of fat is great. You also don't
need that every day. You need it some
days. Also, if you want to hit all your
protein goals with steak,
you might be in trouble because if the
cut of meat you're looking at has a
higher fat content, that's going to be a
whole lot of energy. you're gonna really
overeat on the fats just to try and hit
the protein goals. So to be cost
effective though, I want to be very
specific on dollars spent in order to
get to target protein gold. So for
example, people complain about the price
of ground beef. Now I did in a previous
video the price of ground beef per pound
is the same as the price of Oreo cookies
per pound. So stop complaining about
that. That's ridiculous and childish and
you didn't really even look into it if
that's your complaint. Um, but what I do
is I do six doses of Foraggen a day to
hit my protein goals. I don't even
really have to worry about steak. Now, I
typically that's all I eat, but I'm
actually hitting my protein goal with
six doses of this, which if you're
subscribed to 40en and you get a certain
amount of them delivered every month,
you're paying $2.7
per serving. Well, that gives you 50 g
of protein. So, 50 g of protein for
$2.7.
According to Chat GPT, as of this
morning, a half a pound of ground beef
is $36.
So 99 cents more for the beef.
Now, Foraggen is 99% usable by the body.
Beef is only 38% usable by the body, and
there's some fat content in there. So
forgen is a massive good deal, and you
will hit your protein target. Now, I
didn't used to rely solely on protein to
hit my protein goals. However,
as of recently, especially after I
started using the GL uh the GLP 3, so
three mechanism GLP peptide that cuts my
appetite. I use the minimum clinical
dosage for that, two milligrams a week.
And now I'm basically solely relying on
Foraggen for my protein source. And
really what I'm after when I go out
eating is a fat source instead of a
protein source. So I get the the
fattiest cut of meat, maybe liver worst
or something like that. And I don't even
need to eat very much. Like I'm there's
some days I eat 600 calories, but I get
300 grams of protein at the same time.
And as we know, and I've made videos
about this before,
building muscle is not about a calorie
surplus. Uh there there will be
bodybuilders all over the place that
will tell you that. If you talk to
people who are not bodybuilders, they
probably won't tell you that because
athletes tend to actually know about
reality, not about what all their
friends say. This is where the like the
term bro science comes from because
a lot of people in this culture tend to
encourage each other with bad
information. You need a protein surplus
to build muscle, not a calorie surplus.
And you can be at a calorie deficit and
still build muscle. And if you think
that's not true, how did humans stay
alive
through millions of years of history, or
animals for that matter?
Most animals are at a calorie deficit
most of the time. Yet, they have no
trouble becoming powerful and fast. Like
you look at a cheetah, they eat once a
week. So, how do they maintain this
incredible amount of power? Well, maybe
they have high protein and that's
enough.
They don't need a whole lot more. I know
it's it's a bad example because it's an
animal that has different biochemistry
than us, but if you try this, you will
realize this is the case. Now, if also
if one must have a bodybuilding example
because
some people just can't get past the idea
of they want their favorite,
you know, 5'6 lumpy person to tell them
what they should be eating or what they
shouldn't be eating. Jay Cutler got his
protein from whey powder. And this was
back in the day when there were no
concentrates or isolates. So, it was
just straight old whey, which is 18%
usable by the body. Apparently, Jay
would just be choking that down all day
long. And all he'd really have to do is
eat a little bit of carbs and a little
bit more fats, and that's how he did it.
So, this guy ended up being Mr. Olympia.
You can Google him. I'll put a picture
up. Yeah, he definitely got in
incredible shape. Also used
performance-enhancing drugs. He's a
bodybuilder. Unless it's specifically
drug-free, somebody mentions a
bodybuilder, you can just assume they
take performance-enhancing drugs. Having
said all this, your cheapest option for
hitting protein goals is the 40 Gen
subscription. Ask me any questions. I
know it's it's kind of crazy to think
I'm going to look for the most important
macronutrient just out of a supplement,
but if it's the right supplement, it's
going to be a good call. Ask me any
questions in the comments. Anything at
all. Uh it's a very important subject. I
die hard fan of Foraggen and uh I will
always answer questions about it. Uh so
ask in the comments and [music] I will
see you on the next one. If this video
helped you, I want you to subscribe and
follow. I'm going to put out videos on a
regular basis. I think they're going to
help a whole lot of people, especially
if you're one of those people that
doesn't just instantly grow from lifting
regular weights. We've got the answer
for you.